ABySS - assemble short reads into contigs

* Single-end assembly

Assemble short reads in a file named reads.fa into contigs in a
file named contigs.fa with the following command:

ABYSS -k25 -l42 reads.fa

where -l specifies the read length and -k is an appropriate k-mer
length. The only method to find the optimal value of k is to run
multiple trials and inspect the results. The following shell snippet
will assemble for every value of k from 20 to 40.

for k in {20..40}; do
	ABYSS -k$k -l42 reads.fa && mv contigs.fa contigs-k$k.fa
done

The maximum value for k is 64.

* Paired-end assembly

To assemble paired short reads in a file named reads.fa into contigs
in a file named paired-contigs.fa, run the command:

abyss-pe k=25 l=42 n=5 lib=reads

where k and l are the k-mer length and read length as before, and n is
the minimum number of pairs needed to consider joining two contigs.
The optimal value for n must be found by trial.

The last character of the read identifier for a pair of reads must be
one of '1' and '2', or 'A' and 'B', or 'F' and 'R'.

abyss-pe is a driver script implemented as a Makefile and runs a
single-end assembly, as described above, and the following commands,
which must be found in your PATH:

ABYSS - the single-end assembler
AdjList - finds overlaps of length k-1 between contigs
KAligner - aligns reads to contigs
ParseAligns - finds pairs of reads in alignments
DistanceEst - estimates distances between contigs
SimpleGraph - finds paths between pairs of contigs
MergePaths - merges consistent paths

* Notes

The distribution of fragment sizes is calculated empirically by
aligning paired reads to the contigs produced by the single-end
assembler, and the distribution is stored in a file with the extension
.hist, such as reads.hist.

* See also

Try `abyss --help' for more information on command line options, or
see the manual page in the file `ABYSS.1'.

Written by Jared Simpson and Shaun Jackman.
Contact the authors by email at <abyss@bcgsc.ca>.
